hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day a very special smarter
every day the 100th episode but not only
that it kind of coincided with a million
subscribers so thank you very much for
your support and because of that you get
to join the party with us here's your
party data so what we're going to do
today is we're going to go through all
100 episodes of smarter every day we're
gonna look at clips from each individual
episode and we're just going to
reminisce together what was the first
smartereveryday you saw what was your
favorite smarter every day what was your
favorite smarter every day obviously she
has a cat butchers the slingshot and
mine was the baby I think I don't know
might have an operation rocket so we're
gonna do is leave me a comment tell me
what was your favorite what was the
first one you ever saw and then after we
watch this video together we're going to
go back and when you're research at
three people that you may or may not
know that have been working behind the
scenes on some pretty cool stuff so join
the party let's watch a video together
let's go hey it's me Destin so we don't
have really awesome accents and we don't
have a lot of money but we do know our
guns and we are rocket scientists so
we're going to start a new web series
called smarter every day you make a
quick macro lens it also acts as a
microscope the reason they call it a
triggerfish is because you pull a
trigger in order to get the dorsal fin
to go
the reason you have a carousel inside
your microwave oven is because that beam
always travels through the same path
those who would give up Essential
Liberty to purchase a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty nor
safety these are what happens alike when
they're growing this is a one that's not
very mature you can see the red leaves
and things like that
say you show us what this is this is
comb yes this one is rule this is the
Loon all right
she's swapping hey this is the first
tank we're actually the first vehicle to
be called tank
if they roll each on this rod on the
inside which I decided I was going to
learn the chemicals for fireworks purple
is a combination of strontium and
cumference you get the red and the blue
going together so the sound is
simultaneously initiated from all points
along lightning bolt at the same time
so you can see the current spot we've
made a fire tornado let's check it out
so we've decided to change the format
make learning very very serious I must
agree something seriously off
yes watching one hit it's amazing
see which stands for yes yes
notice it happens where it's rolling
from the high pressure side to the low
pressure side I know it's a rainbow but
I made it which makes it manly I'm okay
dad but I like it bullet versus Kauai
okay this morning we use your frisbee as
a plate to eat cassava and beans what
are we using it for today
hey it's me Destin welcome to smarter
every day
their milk welcome to the slingshot
channel yes
the inside of the stomach has hexagons
on it
Wow roll okay red balloon versus blue
laser easy
this is the very first time this kids
ever seen a rocket his entire life have
a good one but we're gonna have a baby
he's alive and well and his lungs are
working and he's breathing there
bullet Blair is calculated by the
velocity of the bullet as it exits the
weapon multiplied times the flash
duration to eat this part is this the
nut
we're going to apply for straight-up
here and it rotates 90 degrees what do
you know about gyroscopic precession
this is so often I wanna cry no power at
all
so today what I'm going to do is start a
playlist called the deep dive
or sunspots or magnetic storms on the
side so that's awesome
the top band is clearly accelerating
slower than the bottom band these guys
are working on the sunshield for the
James Webb Space Telescope and what I
think so cool about this photo is that
this guy in the bottom right corner is
my dad and yep that's Machu Picchu and
of course that's a llama so what do you
do to hold a bird home on Titan don't be
scared
that's right JZ let it go the wing
separates and the feathers turned so
that the air is flowing straight in
between them so I convinced Allen to do
it self-portrait with me this
self-portrait would reveal more
information than any of the other videos
yeah I'm at YouTube headquarters here in
San Bruno California oh you just got
yeah in an arc
I thought you come down enjoy taking a
high-res photos machu picchu has got
sweet if the sound goes in this year not
all the same frequencies are going to
reach this year
two point five six seconds later we
divide by P one point two eight light
seconds to the moon hey it's me Destin
welcome to Iquitos Peru it's a city of
400,000 we're working on a uh a septic
tank for an orphanage we're going to
learn about how to use levers are you
serious
this tiny spider has created debris that
looks like a big spider
it's called puddling basically they're
drinking the minerals in the sand to get
sold
say that I get this worm down the hole
easy is it possible to wiggle in such a
way that you're able to rotate to a
different angular position and then stop
on smarter every day we demonstrated
this with a high-speed camera and a cat
okay well that's a great question
we don't have any cats on board but we
have a medical doctor who maybe can try
to demonstrate that yeah next best thing
to a cat he can't change his angular
momentum but he can change his body
position the only minier I ever distract
a person happened in 1954 and Alabama
okay what just happened yeah haha there
is basically these are in sequence all
the frames of the video dragonfly wings
have something on them called the Tarot
stigma which is Latin for winged mark
so that's actual people inside and then
on the outside is the cocoon 3 in rear
up oh oh no holy cow he's fast I'm gonna
put my hand down here where your pouch
is and we're just gonna see how this
goes don't bite me just don't buy me
let's stop do that I cannot Philip out
all right that was amazing I really
liked looking back and seeing all the
crazy stuff we've learned just by
opening our eyes and looking at the
world differently
it was amazing thank you for being there
be sure to tell me what your favorite
part was so I told you there were three
people that have been working behind the
scenes on smarter every day with very
little to no recognition so I'm going to
do that now the first person is a guy
named Andrew Jackson not the president
so some people he is the most important
component to even be able to understand
what I'm saying on smarter every day I
caught up with him on Australia this is
Andrew Jackson and you don't know who he
is but he touches every smartereveryday
video
Andrew volunteered to do the captioning
on smarter every day and you've done it
faithfully for how long every year over
a year and you don't even know that he
does that I wanted him to tell you why
he does the captioning because I think
it's a pretty big deal he tell me the
story sure so a friend of mine who I
work with he was deaf wanted to enjoy
distance videos and so I offered to do
the captioning and forward that onto
Destin so that she could watch them
and what's her name my name's Anne and
can we put a captured right here caption
and we're doing this for you so I
figured that if I was doing it for one
person then like the power of the
Internet is that it could be forever
he's done this for free the whole time
it's a pretty big deal and this is just
I wanted to let you know that there are
many people that do things that you
don't know about that make a world of
difference and for that I would like to
give you a high five thank you Andrew
all right so one thing you might feel
when you watch smarter every day but not
really think about is the music Gordon
McGladrey for Michelle the pit actually
writes the music from Vancouver i Skype
with him at night we talk all the time
but Gordon's been there since the
beginning here's some video I caught a
board McGladdery in the rainforests of
Peru when we finally got to meet face to
face so who are you and Gordon
alright shell in the pit all right
Gordon people might not know who you are
in that they've been listening to your
stuff for a couple years
yeah um well I do all the music for
smarter every day Justin and I met
online a year and a half or two years
ago you make it sound like a dating
website man it's not how it was said hey
I'm looking for a hot guy to write music
for yeah this not what happened at all
and so we started making videos and we
just met I guess a week and a half ago
in Lima Peru sound is sound as 80% of
what you see what do you mean I made
that number up for started one thing
that has irritated me a long time about
you is your insistence on having
incredible facial hair and then I try so
hard and this is all I got it looks like
some kind of child trying I can't do it
haters gonna hate this music I've done
for the series we can find that my damn
camp page a shell in the pit a show in
the pit van Capcom right right I think
so yeah
89 hey mister you really in my house no
oh you're you live in Michigan now how
are you have a house oh well I'm going
to the Oprah festival
okay the last guy that's been working
with smarter every day for a while that
you don't know about is Amos Kennedy
Amos is a printer and he'd recently
moved from Alabama to Detroit and the
idea is to teach other people how to
print basics all right so a missus
authorized me to do 100 posters I am
going to print 100 posters to celebrate
the hundred and 100 episode of smarter
every day and Destin is going to figure
out a way that that can generate funds
for smarter every day okay so I can put
I can put these hundred posters on some
type of bidding website and then that
whatever the the price gets up to that's
money that I can put back into smarter
every day right okay and all the posters
are going to be really bizarre
Amos Kennedy you're gonna see more of
him once we figure out exactly how we're
gonna do the posters yeah we don't see
me and you'll see the poster says okay
we're gonna try a real cat this time yes
I'm really excited to show you guys how
these posters are made and I'll do that
in a future episode but for now I think
Amos seems like a wise man so I'll take
his advice and I'll use these hundredth
episode celebration posters as a
fundraiser so I'll leave a link in the
video description if you're interested
in doing that and if you want to support
smarter every day you can do that
Ricci's but for now um thank you I owe
you a thank-you I mean a hundred
episodes it's pretty crazy for just a
dad and Alabama just looking at the
world differently not only that a
million subscribers it's hard to imagine
anyway you've offered me your time your
attention your criticism and your
encouragement and thank you for that
here's 200 more episodes I'll do my best
I'm not perfect I will try my best for
you anyway I'm Destin you get smarter
every day